# Health-monitoring-system
Now-a-days health problems like cardiac failure, lung failures & heart related diseases are arising day by day at a very high rate. Due to these problems time to time health monitoring is very essential. A modern concept is health monitoring of a patient wirelessly. It is a major development in medical arena. Thus, paper based on the monitoring of the patient that is done by the doctor continuously without actually visiting the patient. Health professionals have developed a brilliant and inexpensive health monitoring system for providing more comfortable living to the people suffering from various diseases using leading technologies like wireless communications, wearable and portable remote health monitoring device. As a result, visits of doctors to the patients constantly are decreased as the information regarding patient's health directly reaches to doctor's monitor screen from anywhere the patient resides. Also, based on this doctor can save many lives by imparting them a quick & valuable service. In this, IoT is becoming a major platform for many services & applications, also using Raspberry Pi not just as a sensor node but also a controller here. Health Monitoring system using IOT describes the collection and interoperation of patient data collected from the sensors from the hospitals through IOT Technology. The collected sensor data will support the doctor in the emergency situation for the betterment and improvement of patient health. The hardware platform to implement the project consists of a sensor and Raspberry Pi 3B+ Model equipped in a way to communicate with a doctor through the Internet and Smart Phone. This proposed idea will help doctors to know about the state of patient health and monitor anywhere in the world. People who have to be under regular supervision with respect to heart function and other related factors, people living in rural areas especially can't afford to go to doctor, visiting cities. Hence the Health Monitoring system plays a significant in hand and help solving the major issues at during emergency. In this project we have included the heart rate and blood pressure monitoring by making use of the ppg pulse and developing algorithm and training the PPG – BP datasets to achieve a best comparative regressor model that performs well with the real time applicational use
